packages/tsconfig-reference/copy/en/options/include.md, before:

---
display: "Include"
oneline: "Specify a list of glob patterns that match files to be included in compilation."
---

Specifies an array of filenames or patterns to include in the program.
These filenames are resolved relative to the directory containing the `tsconfig.json` file.

```json
{
  "include": ["src/**/*", "tests/**/*"]
}
```

Which would include:

<!-- TODO: #135
```diff
  .
- ├── scripts
- │   ├── lint.ts
- │   ├── update_deps.ts
- │   └── utils.ts
+ ├── src
+ │   ├── client
+ │   │    ├── index.ts
+ │   │    └── utils.ts
+ │   ├── server
+ │   │    └── index.ts
+ ├── tests
+ │   ├── app.test.ts
+ │   ├── utils.ts
+ │   └── tests.d.ts
- ├── package.json
- ├── tsconfig.json
- └── yarn.lock
``` -->

```
.
├── scripts                ⨯
│   ├── lint.ts            ⨯
│   ├── update_deps.ts     ⨯
│   └── utils.ts           ⨯
├── src                    ✓
│   ├── client             ✓
│   │    ├── index.ts      ✓
│   │    └── utils.ts      ✓
│   ├── server             ✓
│   │    └── index.ts      ✓
├── tests                  ✓
│   ├── app.test.ts        ✓
│   ├── utils.ts           ✓
│   └── tests.d.ts         ✓
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── yarn.lock
```

`include` and `exclude` support wildcard characters to make glob patterns:

- `*` matches zero or more characters (excluding directory separators)
- `?` matches any one character (excluding directory separators)
- `**/` matches any directory nested to any level

If a glob pattern doesn't include a file extension, then only files with supported extensions are included (e.g. `.ts`, `.tsx`, and `.d.ts` by default, with `.js` and `.jsx` if [`allowJs`](#allowJs) is set to true).

Commit message:

Update `include` glob pattern description

packages/tsconfig-reference/copy/en/options/include.md, after:

---
display: "Include"
oneline: "Specify a list of glob patterns that match files to be included in compilation."
---

Specifies an array of filenames or patterns to include in the program.
These filenames are resolved relative to the directory containing the `tsconfig.json` file.

```json
{
  "include": ["src/**/*", "tests/**/*"]
}
```

Which would include:

<!-- TODO: #135
```diff
  .
- ├── scripts
- │   ├── lint.ts
- │   ├── update_deps.ts
- │   └── utils.ts
+ ├── src
+ │   ├── client
+ │   │    ├── index.ts
+ │   │    └── utils.ts
+ │   ├── server
+ │   │    └── index.ts
+ ├── tests
+ │   ├── app.test.ts
+ │   ├── utils.ts
+ │   └── tests.d.ts
- ├── package.json
- ├── tsconfig.json
- └── yarn.lock
``` -->

```
.
├── scripts                ⨯
│   ├── lint.ts            ⨯
│   ├── update_deps.ts     ⨯
│   └── utils.ts           ⨯
├── src                    ✓
│   ├── client             ✓
│   │    ├── index.ts      ✓
│   │    └── utils.ts      ✓
│   ├── server             ✓
│   │    └── index.ts      ✓
├── tests                  ✓
│   ├── app.test.ts        ✓
│   ├── utils.ts           ✓
│   └── tests.d.ts         ✓
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── yarn.lock
```

`include` and `exclude` support wildcard characters to make glob patterns:

- `*` matches zero or more characters (excluding directory separators)
- `?` matches any one character (excluding directory separators)
- `**/` matches any directory nested to any level

If the last path segment in a pattern does not contain a file extension or wildcard charater, then it is treated as a directory, and files with supported extensions inside that directory are included (e.g. `.ts`, `.tsx`, and `.d.ts` by default, with `.js` and `.jsx` if [`allowJs`](#allowJs) is set to true).
