packages/documentation/copy/en/reference/Symbols.md, before:

---
title: Symbols
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/handbook/symbols.html
oneline: Using the JavaScript Symbol primitive in TypeScript
translatable: true
---

Starting with ECMAScript 2015, `symbol` is a primitive data type, just like `number` and `string`.

`symbol` values are created by calling the `Symbol` constructor.

```ts
let sym1 = Symbol();

let sym2 = Symbol("key"); // optional string key
```

Symbols are immutable, and unique.

```ts
let sym2 = Symbol("key");
let sym3 = Symbol("key");

sym2 === sym3; // false, symbols are unique
```

Just like strings, symbols can be used as keys for object properties.

```ts
const sym = Symbol();

let obj = {
  [sym]: "value",
};

console.log(obj[sym]); // "value"
```

Symbols can also be combined with computed property declarations to declare object properties and class members.

```ts
const getClassNameSymbol = Symbol();

class C {
  [getClassNameSymbol]() {
    return "C";
  }
}

let c = new C();
let className = c[getClassNameSymbol](); // "C"
```

## `unique symbol`

To enable treating symbols as unique literals a special type `unique symbol` is available. `unique symbol` is a subtype of `symbol`, and are produced only from calling `Symbol()` or `Symbol.for()`, or from explicit type annotations. This type is only allowed on `const` declarations and `readonly static` properties, and in order to reference a specific unique symbol, you’ll have to use the `typeof` operator. Each reference to a unique symbol implies a completely unique identity that’s tied to a given declaration.

```ts twoslash
// @errors: 1332
declare const sym1: unique symbol;

// sym2 can only be a constant reference.
let sym2: unique symbol = Symbol();

// Works - refers to a unique symbol, but its identity is tied to 'sym1'.
let sym3: typeof sym1 = sym1;

// Also works.
class C {
  static readonly StaticSymbol: unique symbol = Symbol();
}
```

Because each `unique symbol` has a completely separate identity, no two `unique symbol` types are assignable or comparable to each other.

```ts twoslash
// @errors: 2367
const sym2 = Symbol();
const sym3 = Symbol();

if (sym2 === sym3) {
  // ...
}
```

## Well-known Symbols

In addition to user-defined symbols, there are well-known built-in symbols.
Built-in symbols are used to represent internal language behaviors.

Here is a list of well-known symbols:

## `Symbol.hasInstance`

A method that determines if a constructor object recognizes an object as one of the constructor’s instances. Called by the semantics of the instanceof operator.

## `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable`

A Boolean value indicating that an object should be flattened to its array elements by Array.prototype.concat.

## `Symbol.iterator`

A method that returns the default iterator for an object. Called by the semantics of the for-of statement.

## `Symbol.match`

A regular expression method that matches the regular expression against a string. Called by the `String.prototype.match` method.

## `Symbol.replace`

A regular expression method that replaces matched substrings of a string. Called by the `String.prototype.replace` method.

## `Symbol.search`

A regular expression method that returns the index within a string that matches the regular expression. Called by the `String.prototype.search` method.

## `Symbol.species`

A function valued property that is the constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

## `Symbol.split`

A regular expression method that splits a string at the indices that match the regular expression.
Called by the `String.prototype.split` method.

## `Symbol.toPrimitive`

A method that converts an object to a corresponding primitive value.
Called by the `ToPrimitive` abstract operation.

## `Symbol.toStringTag`

A String value that is used in the creation of the default string description of an object.
Called by the built-in method `Object.prototype.toString`.

## `Symbol.unscopables`

An Object whose own property names are property names that are excluded from the 'with' environment bindings of the associated objects.

Commit message:

Add Symbol.asyncIterator to list of well-known symbols (#2629)

packages/documentation/copy/en/reference/Symbols.md, after:

---
title: Symbols
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/handbook/symbols.html
oneline: Using the JavaScript Symbol primitive in TypeScript
translatable: true
---

Starting with ECMAScript 2015, `symbol` is a primitive data type, just like `number` and `string`.

`symbol` values are created by calling the `Symbol` constructor.

```ts
let sym1 = Symbol();

let sym2 = Symbol("key"); // optional string key
```

Symbols are immutable, and unique.

```ts
let sym2 = Symbol("key");
let sym3 = Symbol("key");

sym2 === sym3; // false, symbols are unique
```

Just like strings, symbols can be used as keys for object properties.

```ts
const sym = Symbol();

let obj = {
  [sym]: "value",
};

console.log(obj[sym]); // "value"
```

Symbols can also be combined with computed property declarations to declare object properties and class members.

```ts
const getClassNameSymbol = Symbol();

class C {
  [getClassNameSymbol]() {
    return "C";
  }
}

let c = new C();
let className = c[getClassNameSymbol](); // "C"
```

## `unique symbol`

To enable treating symbols as unique literals a special type `unique symbol` is available. `unique symbol` is a subtype of `symbol`, and are produced only from calling `Symbol()` or `Symbol.for()`, or from explicit type annotations. This type is only allowed on `const` declarations and `readonly static` properties, and in order to reference a specific unique symbol, you’ll have to use the `typeof` operator. Each reference to a unique symbol implies a completely unique identity that’s tied to a given declaration.

```ts twoslash
// @errors: 1332
declare const sym1: unique symbol;

// sym2 can only be a constant reference.
let sym2: unique symbol = Symbol();

// Works - refers to a unique symbol, but its identity is tied to 'sym1'.
let sym3: typeof sym1 = sym1;

// Also works.
class C {
  static readonly StaticSymbol: unique symbol = Symbol();
}
```

Because each `unique symbol` has a completely separate identity, no two `unique symbol` types are assignable or comparable to each other.

```ts twoslash
// @errors: 2367
const sym2 = Symbol();
const sym3 = Symbol();

if (sym2 === sym3) {
  // ...
}
```

## Well-known Symbols

In addition to user-defined symbols, there are well-known built-in symbols.
Built-in symbols are used to represent internal language behaviors.

Here is a list of well-known symbols:

## `Symbol.asyncIterator`

A method that returns async iterator for an object, compatible to be used with for await..of loop.

## `Symbol.hasInstance`

A method that determines if a constructor object recognizes an object as one of the constructor’s instances. Called by the semantics of the instanceof operator.

## `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable`

A Boolean value indicating that an object should be flattened to its array elements by Array.prototype.concat.

## `Symbol.iterator`

A method that returns the default iterator for an object. Called by the semantics of the for-of statement.

## `Symbol.match`

A regular expression method that matches the regular expression against a string. Called by the `String.prototype.match` method.

## `Symbol.replace`

A regular expression method that replaces matched substrings of a string. Called by the `String.prototype.replace` method.

## `Symbol.search`

A regular expression method that returns the index within a string that matches the regular expression. Called by the `String.prototype.search` method.

## `Symbol.species`

A function valued property that is the constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

## `Symbol.split`

A regular expression method that splits a string at the indices that match the regular expression.
Called by the `String.prototype.split` method.

## `Symbol.toPrimitive`

A method that converts an object to a corresponding primitive value.
Called by the `ToPrimitive` abstract operation.

## `Symbol.toStringTag`

A String value that is used in the creation of the default string description of an object.
Called by the built-in method `Object.prototype.toString`.

## `Symbol.unscopables`

An Object whose own property names are property names that are excluded from the 'with' environment bindings of the associated objects.
